---
title: Future Design Potential
---
<div>
    <p style="text-indent: 25px;">
    We think the future potential design of our application might include a much more obvious grouping of elements.We feel like current design does a great job of bringing attention to the most important parts of our application and we accomplish this by very deliberate and intentional use of borders, background colors, font size and weights.Unfortunately the side effect of this heavy emphasis, is that it leaves items that are not intended to be front and center feeling like they exist in this large secondary content bucket. On pages like our home page or resources page there is a lot of very even spacing between all elements and very little visual hierarchy outside of what is important and what is less important. A way we have considered  changing this would be to add more padding to logically grouped elements, and really utilizing the vertical space to emphasize grouping of elements. Since our application is a mobile app we can really take advantage of narrow screens by making a rule that we can only lay grouped elements out vertically, as in everything that is related takes up 100% of its screen width. This way the user can easily anticipate that an item that has a clear top margin is seperate from the previous block.
    </p>
    <p style="text-indent: 25px;">
	Designers should try to anticipate what users want out of any given application, and make it as frictionless as possible to accomplish this. I feel like many apps today try to cram too many features, bright colors and engaging content on our screens. This is often frustrating from a user's perspective because it's not always obvious what I need to click, or where I need to navigate to in order to do basic things. Even if it is obvious, having an extra content liter the screen often makes users second guess whether or not they are making the correct decision. I think city mapper might be the best example of this. When you load the app there is a very clear "Get me somewhere" search bar, but below it there are an unbelievable amount of options to choose from. These range from various types of public transit like buses, and trains, to locations of covid testing centers. Even as a frequent user of this app I find that I still feel overwhelmed when I need to do anything other than use the search bar. Contrast this to google maps where the same functionality exists, but is much easier to understand. This is because advanced functionality like finding covid testing sites need to be sought out. Google ensures that the most frequent use case is as easy as possible to navigate through.
    </p>
    <p style="text-indent: 25px;">
	On the other side of this I think it's important to not over optimize for the most frequent use cases. Like I have previously mentioned, I think our focus on the primary use case of navigating users to relevant data has left some of the content that is not directly associated with accomplishing this as feeling like it almost should be ignored. With that being said our application might be in a more unique position as it is intended to be a public utility that will be used in incredibly stressful situations, so the extra emphasis is required. I think a great way to not over optimize our applications is to use very consistent design language throughout our applications, and consider how many clicks it takes to do any given task. This is really finding a middle ground between capability, and usability.
    </p>
    <p style="text-indent: 25px;">
	Our application has been a really great learning experience, because so much of what makes an application usable isn't immediately obvious. Maintaining a visual hierarchy through correct spacing, font choice, and accent colors, or considering how elements should be arranged so that the next logical step is visible really helps make applications not only easier to use but more effective. I feel like given our backgrounds it's so easy to get caught up in the implementation of an application's functionality that accessibility to that functionality often gets overlooked. This  assignment has really helped me consider application development in a more holistic, user centric manner.
    </p>

<div>
<p style="text-indent: 25px;">
When thinking about our future design potential, we will use what we've learned from our research and our models we've iterated and learned from.
</p>

<p style="text-indent: 25px;">
Some of the things that we've learned is that many first responders face issues that inhibit their ability to help people. Some of these issues are when firefighters don't knopw the inside of the house they are about to enter. When the house is on fire and filled with smoke, it can hinder their ability to do their job. One more issue that comes to mind is when you are calling 911, you may be putt on hold. To circumvent one of these issues, our application has to allow users to upload their blueprints of their house so firefighters can view them.
</p>

<p style="text-indent: 25px;">
The first responders we interviewed gave us invaluable data, but we've also learned from people that actually had experienced a natural disaster and had to evacuate. Their input will also have a huge influence on our design process. Those that had to evacuate needed access to fast and reliable information, which is what our application would need to maintain in all future designs. Our application will need to be trustworthy and reliable in order for information sent to be accepted and used. Also, our application needs to be able to even communicate to people that might be in a state of people. This could be ahcieved by focusing on actions over words. These actions might be reminding them to keep breathing, focus on getting to safety, etc. In addition to what is mentioned earlier, we will need to adopt a minimialist design, which will cut clutter, make it easy to read, make updates small, and only having emergency updates.
</p>

</div>